Inversion of Control (IoC) — Short Interview Answer

#Concept:
	Inversion of Control (IoC) is a design principle that inverts the flow of control in a program.
	Instead of your code controlling object creation and workflow, a framework or container takes 
	over that responsibility.

	You don’t call the framework — the framework calls you.

#Problem It Solves:
	It removes tight coupling between components by delegating control of object creation, configuration, 
	and lifecycle to an external system.

#Relation to Dependency Injection (DI):
	IoC is the broader concept — any mechanism where control is handed to a framework.
	Dependency Injection is one specific way to achieve IoC (by injecting dependencies at runtime).

	In short:

	IoC = principle
	DI = implementation technique of IoC

#Example:
	Without IoC:
	
	Service service = new Service(new Repository());
	
	With IoC (e.g., Spring Framework):
	
	@Service
	public class Service {
	   @Autowired
	   private Repository repo;
	}
	
	Here, the Spring container creates and injects Repository automatically — the code doesn’t manage it.

#Benefits:
1. Promotes loose coupling
2. Improves testability and flexibility
3. Enables framework-driven lifecycle management

#Common Interview Questions & Answers

Q1: What is IoC in simple terms?
A1: It means the control of object creation and flow is inverted — given to the framework instead of the application code.

Q2: How is IoC implemented in Spring?
A2: Through the Spring IoC Container, which manages bean creation, dependency injection, and lifecycle using annotations (@Autowired, @Component) or configuration files.

Q3: Difference between IoC and DI?
A3: IoC is the concept; DI is a technique to achieve it. All DI is IoC, but not all IoC is DI (e.g., event callbacks are also IoC).

Q4: Why is IoC important?
A4: It decouples code, making systems more modular, easier to test, and maintainable.

Q5: Real-world analogy:
A restaurant kitchen — chefs (your code) don’t buy ingredients or schedule deliveries; the manager (IoC container) controls who gets what and when.